#### Abstract
Surface-based observations of atmospheric trace gases and criteria pollutants provide critical data on how emissions and pollutant concentrations vary over time. However, traditional stationary measurement sites only quantify concentrations at a single point in space, limiting our ability to understand spatial patterns. Using trace gas instrumentation capable of making continuous high-frequency (~1s) measurements, we have developed mobile platforms to complement stationary observation sites in order to better constrain the heterogeneity and complexities of urban emissions. These compact trace gas and criteria pollutant measurement systems are capable of precisely measuring CO2, CH4 PM2.5, O3, NOx, and several meteorological parameters on TRAX, Salt Lake City’s light-rail system (TRAX), and in a van-based mobile laboratory. Using case study observations, we discuss mobile measurement methodologies and the practical applications of mobile trace gas sampling platforms.

#### Methods
High-frequency trace gas and criteria pollutant measurements take place continuously on TRAX and semi-continuously during research campaigns using the Nerdmobile. TRAX houses a Los Gatos Research (LGR) Ultraportable GGA (CO2, CH4), a 2B Technologies 205 (O3), Met One E-Sampler (PM2.5), a suite of meteorological measurements including temperature, pressure, and relative humidity, and a GRIMM 1.109 during relevant studies (PM2.5, particle size distributions). These instruments are interfaced via RS232 to a Raspberry Pi, which serves as a central brain by controlling instruments and calibration systems as well as acting as a datalogger for over 70 simultaneously measured variables. The LGR, known to be exceptionally linear in both CO2 and CH4 space, is calibrated hourly against a single reference gas. Other measurements are calibrated on a seasonal basis.

The Nerdmobile houses two Picarro CRDS (CO2/CO, CO2/CH4), a 2B Technologies 205 (O3), a 2B Technologies 410/401 (NOx), a GRIMM 1.109 (PM2.5, particle size distributions), and a system for filling flasks for isotopic analysis. Similarly to TRAX, these instruments are interfaced via RS232 to an Intel NUC which logs over 60 simultaneously measured variables. Due to the importance of feedback for technicians operating the Nerdmobile, the Intel NUC wirelessly hosts a wireless real-time dashboard to a provided iPad as an app or most other internet-capable devices as a webpage. The wireless dashboard allows the operator to control onboard valves and pumps, take geolocated notes and flask observations, access in-depth documentation for diagnosing problems with instruments or control systems, and monitor any of the incoming variables from the six instruments in real-time.
